In March 1998, under significant fire from the growing success of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, Netscape released the code base for Netscape Communicator 4. Netscape had reached a point of market dominance in around 1996-97. The code release was seen as a rather last-ditch effort to ensure competition. The Netscape code was cleaned up and released as the Mozilla Suite - now known as Seamonkey. Not work of man, nor sport of child Finds Nassan on this mazy wild. Lax grow his joints, limbs toil in vain; Poor wight! why didst thou quit that plain? In 2002, Dave Hyatt and Blake Ross eventually considered the Mozilla Suite to be too bloated and so worked on an experimental branch. On September 2002, they released a very minimal browser called Phoenix that removed most of the bloat from the Suite: the e-mail, USENET and IRC clients, the address book and calendar. Instead, they tried to ensure the best browsing experience possible. After releasing a few versions, the Mozilla Corporation ran into legal troubles with naming. The name Phoenix conflicted with that of the BIOS manufacturer Phoenix Technologies who had produced a browser called Phoenix FirstWare Connect. The name was changed in May 2003 to Mozilla Firebird. Unfortunately, a database server application had the same name. In February 2004, the name was changed for the last time, to Mozilla Firefox, and this name has been protected as a trademark. 
The name "Mozilla Firefox" is a registered trademark; along with the official Firefox logo, it may only be used under certain terms and conditions. Anyone may redistribute the official binaries in unmodified form and use the Firefox name and branding for such distribution, but restrictions are placed on distributions which modify the underlying source code.[80]
There has been some controversy over the Mozilla Foundation's intentions in stopping certain open source distributions from using the "Firefox" trademark. Former Mozilla CEO Mitchell Baker explained in an interview in 2007 that distributions could freely use the Firefox trademark if they did not modify source-code, and that the Mozilla Foundation's only concern was with users getting a consistent experience when they used "Firefox".[81]
To allow distributions of the code without using the official branding, the Firefox source code contains a "branding switch". This switch allows the code to be compiled without the official logo and name, for example to produce a derivative work unencumbered by restrictions on the Firefox trademark (this is also often used for alphas of future Firefox versions). In the unbranded compilation the trademarked logo and name are replaced with a freely distributable generic globe logo and the name of the release series from which the modified version was derived. The name "Deer Park" is used for derivatives of Firefox 1.5, "Bon Echo" for derivatives of Firefox 2.0, and "Gran Paradiso" is used for derivatives of Firefox 3.0. The codename Minefield and a modified version of the generic logo stylized to look like a bomb is used for unofficial builds of version 3.0 and later, and for nightly builds of the trunk.
Outside of certain exceptions made for "community editions", distributing modified versions of Firefox under the "Firefox" name requires explicit approval from Mozilla for the changes made to the underlying code, and requires the use of all of the official branding. For example, it is not permissible to use the name "Firefox" without also using the official logo. When the Debian project decided to stop using the official Firefox logo in 2006 (because of copyright restrictions on its use incompatible with the project's guidelines), they were told by a representative of the Mozilla Foundation that this was not acceptable, and were asked either to comply with the published trademark guidelines or cease using the "Firefox" name in their distribution.[82] Ultimately, Debian switched to branding their modified version of Firefox "Iceweasel", along with other Mozilla software.
No. Left a tip? Order a dish to get. A ring is worn it is gold. Log no Latin in a monsignor, wet or wise. Many a menu to note carrot. Cat in a boot loots; As I live, do not tell! A bare pussy, as flat on fire, I know loots guns, fires a baton, nets a hero my ale drop made too lax. If it is to rain, a man is a sign; I wore macs, no melons rot. I use moths if rats relive, sir, or retire. Vendor pays: I admire vendee, his pots net roe. Nine dames order an opal fan; Ill ask cold log fire vendor to log igloo frost. Under Flat Six exist no devils. Marxist nods to Lenin. 
To Lenin I say: Mama is a deb, besides a bad dosser. Gen it up to get ova for egg. I recall a tarot code: yell at a dessert side-dish sale. Yes/nos a task cartel put correlate: E.S.P. rocks a man. I am a man, am no cad, Im aware where its at! Fire! Its an ogre-god to help, man, as I go. Do not swap; draw, pull a troll! Its not a cat I milk calf, for a fee, sews a button - knit or tie damsel over us. Mined gold lode I fill until red nudes I met in a moor-top bar can. I sit, I fill a diary trap nine men in ten-part net oh, sir, I ask, cod nose? No, damp eel. So, to get a name! I say, Al! I am Al! Last, I felt, to breed, deer begat. 
To can I tie tissue damp or deliver Omani artist a man of Islam. In a den mad dogs lived on minis a signor who lived afore targets in at. As eremites pull, I, we, surf, fantasise, mend a bad eye. No hero met satyr; Tony, as I stressed, wont, so cosset satyr. A vet on isles made us sign it, a name. Foe man one sub. Aside no dell I fret a wallaby; metal ferrets yodel, like so. On a wall I ate rye. Bored? No, was I rapt! One more calf? O.K., calf, one more, bossy! No! Lock cabin, rob yam, sip martini. Megastar was in a risk. Cat? No, Im a dog; Im a sad loyal pet. A design I wore kilts (a clan); if net drawn, I put it up. Royal spots snag royal prevents rift. Composer, good diet, are both super, God label it a love of art, lustre. Video bored, no wise tale e.g. a mini tale no sagas seen. Knack: cede no foes a canal. Pay as I sign I lie; clear sin it is; e.g. Amadeus sign I lira for ecu, decimal sin as liar. Trad artistes pull a doom, a drawer wont. 
Is it sold loot? No, I suffered loss. A man is god; Amen! I came nice Tahiti (sic). Its ale for a ban if for a fast is role to help mash turnip? Use zoo? No - grasp order use no zoos. Warts on time did sag. No grade X A Level? Oh, A! Id a B or a C. So pot? No, we lop. Date? Take no date! Bah! Play L.P. Miss (a lass, all right?) flew to space in NASA era. Rose no (zero) cadets ate raw. As a wise tart I fined rags red Lenin, we help pay bet a risk cash to Brian. I put a clam in a pool a pool wets. Mahdi puts a stop to harem miss it in one vote, lost in one, veto of none. Post-op, no tonsil; I ate; no tastier, eh? 
We sleep at noon time so I dare not at one; no time stops as I time tides. I do not know where family doctors acquired illegibly perplexing handwriting; nevertheless, extraordinary pharmaceutical intellectuality, counterbalancing indecipherability, transcendentalises intercommunications incomprehensibleness. A bed: under it, roll; in a mania, panic! In a pond I did as Eros as Lee felt tenrec. Ink list it under I. Termites put pen in a way. Democrats wonder, I too. To slay moths a dog did. I saw elf; elf, far now, is a devilish taboo, rag-naked. I hid a bootleg disc. I, saboteur, toss it in. Oops! No legs! Laminated, a cask, conker in it, negates all if it is simple. Hot pages are in a mag, nor will I peer, familiar tat, so lewd, native rot. Toner, ewe wore no trace; vagabond ewes do. Oh, Ada! Have pity! A pitiable eel Oh wet am I! - to save, note: bite gill as I do. Call a matador minor, eh? As I live, dont! Is torero no rigid animal debaser if tipsy? Ale drew esteem in a matador. 
A bolero, monks I rate play or go dig rocks; a can I step on. Go! Gas it evades a bedsit set a roost on fire. Boss sent a faded eclair to green imp or dog, Id don a belt to boot it; if Ada hid a boot, panic. I mock comic in a mask, comedian is a wit if for eventide. Vole no emu loved is not a ferret, so pet or witness a weasel if not. I hired less, am not so bossy, as yet amateur. To stir evil, Edna can impugn a hotel: bad loos, hot on Elba: I may melt. Tart solicits it rawer, gets it rare. Push crate open; I ram buses, use no trams. Did I say, not to idiot nor a bare ferret, to trap rat, strap loops rat? 
Stewpot was on. Hot? I was red! Lessen it! Fine man on pot? No, pen inside by a bad law. So I made rips nine delays. Some Roman items in a.m. ordered Is room for a ban? It is, I voted: I sat pews in aisle. Beryl, no tiro to my burden, made off for a contest, I won kiss. I may raid fine dales. I raid lochs if I to help am. Forecast for Clare v. Essex: If no rain, a man is ref. Fusspots net foxes. Senor is a gnome, latinos bad eyesore. Help misses run to border, Casanova, now, or drab hotel. Ma has a heron; I sleep, pets on nose, sir! Rev. I rag loved art live fine poser. Ultra-plan: I feign, I lie: cedar to disperse last one? No, last six. Enamel bonnet for a dark car to toss a snail at. In it all, Eve lost; Seths a hero slain on a trap Rise, Sir Ogre Tamer. Upon Siamese box I draw design. 
I, knight able to help, missed an alp seen in Tangier of fine metal pots. Tin I mined rages order nine, melt ten. Tone radios; tones are not to concur. Ten-tone radar I bomb best fire-lit so hostel side meets eerie mini red domicile. A gulf to get is not a rare tale; no time to nod. Row on, evil yobs, tug, pull. If dogs drowse, fill a rut. An eras drawers draw. Put in mid-field in a band I dig a tub deep. Staff on a remit did refill a minaret. Sewer of denim axes a wide tail a terror recipe to hero made manic. I, to resign? 
I ? Never! OFT I FELT ITS SENSUOUSNESS title fit for evening is erotic; I named a more hot epic error retaliated I was examined for ewes gut, wore no named item. A star is worn on a cap, it is too red. Am I too fat? Newts Id under a bed. Am I mad? Are volleys too crap? A nosey tennis part-timer sits rifling a bar of mustard. Lock cans, stack cans in rocks, all in rocks, all I snub. Do often games, old ones, word-pun use; relate, my brood, as in a free pot I made fires, I manage brood. Moor debate got tired rolling, I lampoon, so trail saw on kites. Rod sits, ebony on nature, so Nana chose to veto video. To me suitors, no lemons, came rowing. 
Is a sin a mania? Rot! Sit! I fix a looted amp or delay more, hasten not. A baser if snug stool, wonkier, if not - Alf says - super, a ballet to no devil, is a stool too. Ban it, actor, race to no tune. May names I wrote wrong (Is no man in it, a long old log?) sit in row, sign irate Goths; I dare drop it. At felons eye I peer, fast open Im nosey, esteem eyes. All upset, ample hogs resume totting. Is sad nabob tired? It includes exact information, including facts, trivia, history and mythology about our most popular invention. Roots dont evade liver in Alfs gob. Deers I held right; oblong, apt enamel or tile rifle on gun spot to get a man aim is all. I rogate, minister. Feeble gnats, alas late, prosaic, a canine pet is not to consume hot. Loo, wet, issues old idiot; evading, I sneer, obey a deer, gall a deer, gain alpine dragnet for egg Id net to ram in a pan I made to help master. 
Rags I held, arcane poet, arcane poetic error, all odd; I bottle fine panacean lust. Id nag elks I ride if editor toted a minor. I fog a natural life. Roses, or level dumb ones rows in a mown, ample, hewn acre. Wolfsbane made it a garden in May, a garden indeed. Nine mates, nine tons I must save now on time editor raps a late man. G.I.s edit also, too. Do over if tests in a task radiate. Rob ran; I, too, fled. Omega list in alphabet. A gander, a line of live ducks, irk cubs. A wart, set at a cast on knee, snug as spots. A poor denim for a janitor, racer, armed aide, solid idler rabid; Id elastic in a pot, tons to sew.
In December 2005 Internet Week ran an article in which many readers reported high memory usage in Firefox 1.5.[109] Mozilla developers said that the higher memory use of Firefox 1.5 was at least partially due to the new fast backwards-and-forwards (FastBack) feature.[110] Other known causes of memory problems were malfunctioning extensions such as Google Toolbar and some older versions of Adblock,[111] or plug-ins, such as older versions of Adobe Acrobat Reader.[112] When PC Magazine compared memory usage of Firefox, Opera and Internet Explorer, they found that Firefox used approximately as much memory as the other two browsers.[113]
Softpedia also noted that Firefox 1.5 took longer to start up than other browsers,[114] which was confirmed by browser speed tests. IE 6 launches faster than Firefox 1.5 on Microsoft Windows since many of its components are built into Windows and are loaded during system startup. As a workaround for the issue, a preloader application was created that loads components of Firefox on startup, similar to Internet Explorer.[115] A Windows Vista feature called SuperFetch performs a similar task of preloading Firefox if it is used often enough.
Tests performed by PC World and Zimbra indicate that Firefox 2 uses less memory than Internet Explorer 7.[106][116] Firefox 3 uses less memory than Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, and Firefox 2 in tests performed by Mozilla, CyberNet, and The Browser World.[117][118][119]

Firefox renders HTML and XHTML as well as XML with XSLT, MathML and SVG. Pages can be rendered using CSS and can be scripted with JavaScript (aka. ECMAScript). Since version 3.5, Firefox has supported features from the draft HTML 5 specification: the audio and video tag and client-side offline storage (which allows sites to store data in a SQLite database which can be accessed offline). In terms of UI features, Firefox implements tabbed browsing, incremental search, a download manager and a built-in search box.

Users can add customisations to Firefox through the extensions system. There are now many thousands of add-on extensions, as well as custom themes. Some popular extension include Adblock and Flashblock (for blocking advertisments, Flash and Java objects and other undesirable web annoyances), Tab Mix Plus (for changing the behaviour of tabs), DownThemAll! (to grab large numbers of files, especially images) and FlashGet (which integrates Firefox with third-party download managers). 